## Date:

8/17/2020

### Day:

1

### My Code Links:

React Pomodoro Project: https://github.com/averdin2/React_Pomodoro

### Resources:

React Setup: https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html#create-react-app

## Journal

I spent a majority of the day writing the first part for my tutorial about planning projects. You can see in the readme for my project (Check the GitHub repo linked above) that I outlined some functional requirements for my project. Although project planning isn’t necessarily coding, it definitely becomes very important when projects scale upwards so I personally don’t like to skimp out on it. I consider planning as a part of the coding process so I figured I’d use this first day to plan out my project. If anyone is not really familiar with writing functional requirements, feel free to check out my repo. It may not be the most complicated functional requirements ever written, but if you are brand new to formally planning out your software projects, my requirements are very beginner friendly.

I also did some basic code setup for my React Pomodoro tutorial. There are a few different ways to set up react for a project, but since I will be uploading to GitHub regularly, I figured I would just setup my project with the Create React App CLI. The Create React App CLI is pretty intuitive and I personally think that for beginners of the command line and npm, it is probably one of the most beginner friendly ways to get started with npm. All I did was create a folder for my project then cd into the folder and use the command: npx create-react-app react-pomodoro.

My next step is to just clean out the files that I won’t need and clean up the README. Here are the steps I used to clean up my code if you are interested:

- First, I will clean up the README. I just deleted everything and put a h2 title. (I later wrote a description, purpose, and added my functional requirements that I wrote.)
- Go to src folder and delete code in App.css.
- Go into App.js and delete everything under the first div. Add h1 that says Hello World. Also, delete the import for logo.
- Can leave the code in index.css alone for now. Will probably clean up a bit later.
- In index.js, delete the import for serviceWorker and the commented code and serviceWorker.unregister.
- Delete logo.svg.
- Delete serviceWorker.js.
- Now, get out of the src folder and go into the public folder.
- Delete favicon.ico.
- Delete logo192.png and logo512.png.
- Now go into index.html. Remove the icon link. Remove link that says “apple-touch-icon” and “manifest”. You can also delete all those commented lines.
- Under the meta tag with the name of “description” you can change the content to say “Pomodoro Timer Web Application” or whatever description you want.
- For the title tag, replace React App with Pomodoro Timer, or whatever description you want.
- Close index.html and delete manifest.json.

This is pretty much all you need for the basic setup without other fluff code.

I created a few basic components for my Pomodoro project and I’m calling it a day. I didn’t write a lot of actual code, but planning and setting up your projects is just as important and can take up just as much time. Feel free to check out my React Pomodoro project on GitHub and happy coding!
