## Date:

8/18/2020

### Day:

2

### My Code Links:

React Pomodoro Project: https://github.com/averdin2/React_Pomodoro

### Resources:

## Journal

I again spent the day working on some code for my React tutorial. You know, it is actually quite time intensive to write code and write down explanations for your code at the same time. I easily spent a few hours writing very little code, yet explaining what I wrote in another document.

Anyway, an interesting topic I came across when I was working on my code was how to center your content with CSS. There are so many ways to do this, and I remember when I first got started with this whole web development thing that I had no idea how to do this. I figured I’d share the few different ways I came up with in case anyone is curious.

My first way is to use CSS Flexbox. This is my personal preferred way for centering content. Here’s the code I wrote in my specific project for Flexbox centering.

```
.container {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  width: 100vw;
  height: 100vh;
}
```

Another way I came up with was using Position and Translate. I personally would only really use this way if I had intended to use animations as well.

```
.container {
  position: absolute;
  top: 50%;
  left: 50%;
  transform: translate(-50%, -50%);
  text-align: center;
}
```

A third way I came up with was using CSS Grid. It is fairly similar to using Flexbox. I would probably use this if I am already using Grid for layout purposes.

```
.container {
  display: grid;
  justify-content: center;
  justify-items: center;
  align-content: center;
  height: 100vh;
}
```

A last way I came up with doesn’t center it vertically, but I would use this way if I wanted the vertical alignment to maybe not be centered. You could certainly use the other methods to vertically align, but this is just another way. It involves using margin set to auto.

```
.container {
  margin: auto;
  padding-top: 40vh;
  width: 50%;
  text-align: center;
}
```

An important thing to note about centering is that if the container you are centering your content in does not have a fixed width or height, you can sometimes run into problems with centering.

In my opinion, I find that using Grid or Flexbox are the best options when intentionally styling for various screen sizes. I also tend to not use pixel sizes for anything that has to do with general positioning. It is better to use something like Grid or Flexbox and make sizes in percentages or view widths/heights.
Anyway, this is all I got for today.

Thanks for reading and happy coding!
