## Date:

8/19/2020

### Day:

3

### My Code Links:

Dodgers Scoreboard: https://github.com/averdin2/Dodgers_Scores

### Resources:

MLB Game Data API: https://gd2.mlb.com/

Game Data Link for Today's Dodger Game: https://gd2.mlb.com/components/game/mlb/year_2020/month_08/day_19/gid_2020_08_19_lanmlb_seamlb_1/linescore.json

## Journal

Today I decided that I wanted to make updates to a project I had started over a year ago. My original plan with that project was to make a real time MLB scores website. I originally planned to focus on scores for the Los Angeles Dodgers. When I originally worked on the project, I was able to gather the game data from the API and display it, but I had issues dynamically generating the game ID I needed to access the scores as well as automatically refreshing the scores.

The problem with the API I am using for this project is that the link required to gather the game data is very convoluted, and there is no easy way to find the game id within the API itself. I have to deduce the game id for the game I specifically want to display by looking through one source from the API data and then Frankenstein it together to make the link for the API that will give me a specific game’s data from my own intuition. It is just too difficult for me to figure out a way to have my website do this process.

Anyway, what I figured I could do was to make the scores update for a hardcoded link by having a button to refresh the scores, and I figured that I could at least have a form entry for inputting the link for a specific game. I know that no one is probably going to go through the effort to deduce a link for the data from one game(making this project effectively useless), but I figured I would add more functionality to my website than I had originally. I learned a lot from this project about using React and Redux together so I didn’t want to give up on it. I always wanted to get it to a point where it would work well if I could just acquire the game data’s link more easily.

Today I was able to get the refresh button working properly. It really is a doozy going back to code I wrote over a year ago. Not going to lie, Redux can be a pain in the butt to figure out where I needed to make updates. Luckily, I structured my code fairly well when I originally started this project so it was easy to find all the files I needed to change. The most difficult part was figuring out what I needed to add or remove from the Redux aspects of the code.

What I ended up doing was adding a new component that would act as the refresh button. It wasn’t too difficult to style it in with the rest of the project. What I will probably change later is that I put the styles for the button into a separate SASS file. I’ll probably merge it with my main style file.

As for the functionality of getting the button to refresh the scores, I had to change some functionality from some other components first. Originally, I had the components fetching for the data for a specific game upon mounting, and then storing that into my Redux store. I would then populate the appropriate data for each component. What I ended up doing was changing it so that the components do not fetch the data upon mounting. Instead, I fetch the data when my refresh button is pressed.

This solution seems fairly simple when I write it out like this, but man was I scratching my head at this problem for a while. It had been a while since I had used Redux and honestly, my understanding of it was not really that good. I kept trying to think about my button refreshing my components rather than just resetting the link. I don’t know why I thought this way at first, but once I realized that everything in the project just relies on data from the link, then it was a pretty simple fix to just have the button fetch for the data link and the rest of my code was already written to update the state upon a data fetch.

When I finally came up with my solution, it was funny how much of the code I had already written took care of a job I thought I was going to have a problem with. I honestly have no idea how I knew what I was doing the first time around, but that’s kind of the funny thing about coming back to old code.

Anyway, that is all that I worked on today. I’ll probably code the input form tomorrow and update some of my project documents, and finally put this project to rest.
