## Date:

9/2/2020 and 9/3/2020

### Day:

6 and 7

### My Code Links:

React Pomodoro Project: https://github.com/averdin2/React_Pomodoro

### Resources:

React Lifting State Article: https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-lift-state

## Journal

I know that I took like a week off between coding, but I had to take care of some other things and I just did not get around to coding much. 

These past few days, I have gone back to working on my React Pomodoro Timer Tutorial project. I decided that this project was just a little bit too ambitious to make into a written tutorial. Instead, I decided that I would make a good project to have documents that walk-through the exact steps I used to think through my project, and I will tie it in with the version I made with Vue. 

I really want the journals I make for this project to be as informative into my thought process, and clear to read as possible. I want my thought process to almost come across as a tutorial. I hope to make more simple tutorials in the future though.

I do think that if I made this tutorial a video tutorial that it would be a lot easier to follow along with what I was trying to convey which was a, ‘do it yourself with my help,’ kind of a thing. I don’t feel like making a video tutorial at this time, so I decided to change this project into what it was originally, but improving on my coding and adding a better thought out series of journals that is easier to understand.

As to what I actually coded today, I added the functionality of changing styles based on the Pomodoro Timer’s status. If you don’t understand what I mean, basically, when the timer starts, the color styles are changed to reflect that. If you want more information on my project, check the project readme linked under my code links above.

I was able to get all the color styles working properly, but I don’t have the actual timer made yet so they don’t change dynamically based on the timer just yet, but they can be hard coded by passing a value to a handleTimerStatus function.

Under my code resources, I found the article I have linked to be useful in understanding instances of using state in React. If anyone is new to React, I recommend giving this article a read to give you a better understanding of React State.

Tomorrow I am hoping to add some tests to the project. I haven’t done a lot of React testing so I am hoping to implement unit tests in my code.
