## Date:

9/22/2020

### Day:

9

### My Code Links:

React Pomodoro Timer: https://github.com/averdin2/React_Pomodoro

### Resources:

## Journal

I just want to start off by saying that I know that I haven’t been keeping up with coding. I will probably restart this challenge soon. It was kind of a lot to keep up with coding, writing these journal entries, and working on other things I had my mind on. Instead, I want to tweak this challenge a bit to fit the way I want to use it. Personally, I already know that I might not get around to coding every day. The main reason why I wanted to engage this challenge was to share my thoughts consistently and to motivate myself to work on things that I needed to get done. Instead, I want to change this challenge into something that reflects that. It was a bit difficult for me to write journals like this every day, so instead I am planning on doing them weekly or something like that. When I get everything sorted, I will restart this challenge from day 1.

Another thing I would like to say before I talk about what I coded is that I don’t consider my inability to complete this challenge this time a failure. If anyone who is reading this has trouble maintaining a daily habit like this every day and wasn’t able to keep it up, don’t consider it a failure. You only truly fail when you give up, so keep going. The way I think of it, I think that starting this challenge was like an experiment. I wasn’t 100% sure what I wanted to get out of this challenge at the beginning; All I knew was that I wanted to get started. I believe it is better to start first, see what went wrong, and tweak it for next time; This is exactly what I am doing with this challenge. And, don’t be afraid to make challenges like this fit your needs. If you know you may not be able to code even for one hour a day every day of the week, change it so that it fits your needs. Maybe only code for 30 minutes every other day or every week day. The point of challenges like this is that you build a consistent habit.

Anyway, enough rambling about that, I want to talk about what I coded today. I was basically working on getting my React Pomodoro Timer app to actually have a timer. The timer component now works as intended. It was really interesting implementing code I had written for a Pomodoro timer in Vue and translating that code into React. There were a lot of changes I needed to make, and code design decisions I needed to implement to ensure that the code fit with what I want to focus on for this project. Luckily, I didn’t need to change my functions up too much which was nice.

Since my focus for this project was on creating components that could work well outside of this project, I wanted to make sure that the timer component had all the necessary functions nested within that file, and not somewhere up in the hierarchy passing down props to the timer. The timer will still need to rely on some props to function properly, but for now it works with hard coded values for the timer. When I get around to putting the entire project together, I will have the parent component of the timer pass down props to indicate when the timer should start, and the amount of time that the timer should count down.

I am also in the process of writing my though process for my project which will also be added to the project repo linked above. That should go more in depth into how I got the timer to work by itself first so check that out when I finally finish the project if you are interested.
